---
layout: post
title:  "Preventing Suicides with NLP - Winning the IET & Hackerearth Hack N' Code 2018"
author: aniruddh
categories: [ Apps, Machine Learning, NLP ]
image: https://aniruddh-chandratre-e877.netlify.app/static/d430dedef6eabf5602ba7e103b380de1/27c7f/44750063_2723254504367134_3959550540823658496_o.jpg
toc: true
---

## Introduction
Every 40 seconds, someone dies by committing suicide, and every 41st second, someone has to figure out why. Suicide is one of the leading silent killers throughout the world. Contrary to popular belief, suicide is extremely preventable. The Indian NGO, AASRA, aims to build a comprehensive platform which brings together individuals facing depression and volunteers, professional, and doctors willing to reach out and help.

During the 12-hour hackathon, I lead a team of 3 and we built multi-platform, minimalist and robust system that aims to bridge the gap between the people who are in need of help and the people who want to help while ensuring confidentiality of the people and helping them in their journey of overcoming mental health disorders.

## Our solution
We built a web application and an android application capable of communicating with a chat bot. The chat bot started communication with the person in need an kept a track of the negativity of the conversation and assigned a priority value to each user. With this, the human volunteers could safe as many lives as possible!

The website, incorporated a minimalist, easy-on-the-eyes user interface, while being easy-to-use. It consists of a discussion forum where the users can ask queries and read answers to previously asked queries. It has a switch off section where links to various games are provides that let users take a break. The website complements the android application, which in itself is a complete module that can function independently.

The android application brings a card based user interface wherein a user can look at the activities, events happening around them, they can call a helpline if they’re feeling low. There’s also facility available for guided breathing.The development of the android app started with the advent of us having the idea of having users talk to a helpline. The helpline function of the app connects the user to the AASRA NGO which specialises in talking to people with mental health disorders.

We also added an option for an always on microphone in the app that listens to what the user is consciously or subconsciously saying to check the text output of the same. This text output is automatically checked by the system automatically for trigger words. With the help of the trigger words, an email or a text message can be sent to the favourite contacts saved on their devices.

The system also sent push notifications with positive quotes every 3 hours to keep the user motivated.

## Further steps

Another perk of winning the 12-hour hackathon was an internship with the NGO, where I developed the website available at https://aasra.info