---
layout: post
title:  "Autonomous Invoice Processing - Winning the Smart India Hackathon 2019"
author: aniruddh
categories: [ Machine Learning ]
image: https://aniruddh-chandratre-e877.netlify.app/static/59ec2c02c724d79b299953b45df90e49/ec6c5/52997061_3009836182375630_1203147878663454720_o--1-.jpg
toc: true
---

## Introduction
It's almost 2020 now, and a lot of organisations still rely on paper based work-order tasks. This creates the need for data-entry. Data entry is a mundane process and can take up a lot of time. So how can we improve this?

Me and my team represented the university at the Smart India Hackathon Grand Finale at IIT Roorkee in March 2019. We developed this solution in less than 36 hours and bagged the first position for the same.

We took up the task of data-entry with respect to invoice processing, as it can prove to be the most challenging. A single company may have 100s of different types of invoices, and a single invoice may have huge amount of variation in terms of placement of items. Thus, a hardcoded information extracting system will fail miserably!

Demo: 

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/uq4nnyigLMQ" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


## Our solution
The solution presented by us worked as a 4 stage pipeline.


1. Upload : Deals with how the file can be uploaded for processing. The solution provided methods for batch processing as well as single file processing.
2. Filter and segment : By segmenting blocks of text within an invoice, we could create regions of interest in which OCR can be applied for extracting textual information.
3. OCR : The problem statement defined that the invoices will consist of printed characters, however we took the solution one step ahead by incorporating OCR  for hand written characters. One alternative pipeline was developed which connected the application to Google Cloud Vision API for OCR if a different language (other than English) is being used in the invoice.
4. Updating database : The extracted information is then updated in a database from where the organisation can access / visualise their data.
The solution made use of form-codes (unique identity code for each form) in order to update the database correctly.

## The platform

Submission platform : The submission platform provided a way for the organisation employees to upload scanned copies (PDF or JPG) to our server in order to perform content extraction. The submission platform required the form code and the file to be processed. In batch processing, a ZIP file containing all the PDFs/JPGs can be uploaded.

Result page : The result page had two distinct section : 1. Tables, 2. Key-Value information. The key-value information refers to as details such as billing address, shipping address, taxation details, customer number, order number, etc. The Tables usually consists of item itineraries, etc. The platform provided export options such as export to CSV and export to JSON such that the organisation can transfer the data directly to their CRM of choice.

Visualisation tool : A very good way of debugging the platform in some cases where the extracted data was not correct is to have a visualisation tool. The tool helped visualise which part of data was extracted from which part of the image.