---
layout: post
title:  "Delego (2017, 2018, 2019) - Revolutionising Model United Nations conferences!"
author: aniruddh
categories: [ Apps ]
image: https://aniruddh-chandratre-e877.netlify.app/static/a66a7fec47b794e569cd335a7bef755f/d8255/pjimage--2-.jpg
toc: true
---


## The App
Delego is the next revolution in conference technology. It aims to digitise the old and inefficient ways of manual communication and listings during Model UN conferences. With features like digital chits, QR integration, and integrated merchandise shopping, it changes the way conferences have been organised and managed so far.

It prevents the arduous struggles faced by participants of the event.

Delego helps to organise data about the delegates, the panels and the hosts and keeps you updated about the latest developments in the hosted event.

### Committee Session
Committee Session includes information about the Speakers List and replaces the passing of physical chits. Here, the participants can add their names to the speaker’s list and the EB is able to view this information. Participants can communicate with each other in the ‘Digital Chits’ section. The EB also controls whether the committee is in session or not in session.

### Schedule
Schedule gives the participants the information about the timings and the venue of the schedule throughout the day. It includes Registration, Opening Ceremony, Lunch, Committee Session 1, High Tea, Committee Session 2, and informal events.

### My QR
Each participant receives a designated QR for their identity which is scanned for their registration and meals. This makes it easier for the delegate as they no longer have to worry about losing receipts or coupons.

### Merchandise Store
The event’s merchandise is displayed on the app for the participants to view the available merchandise and save them from physically going to the stalls to see them.

### My Map
Location shows the location of where the event is taking place so it’s easy for the participants to locate the event. This makes it easier for the participants to directly access the location instead of contacting people and figuring the location out.


### Sponsors 
All of the sponsors for the event are mentioned in this section along with the link to their website.

### Contact 
This section includes the contact details of all the important people along with their role. This enables the participants to easily communicate with the required people without having to go in search for the concerned people.

